Cleanup ota reference manual (#635)
foundriesio/docs: source/reference-manual/ota/production-targets.rst

Production Targets
==================

> As a part of going to production,you need to define two distinct sets of devices: *test* versus *production*.

Reviewer: A space missing in `production,you`.

As noted in the :ref:`offline keys documentation <ref-offline-keys>`,
FoundriesFactory® leverages The Update Framework (TUF) to deliver Over-the-Air (OTA) software updates to devices.
Production versus test devices receive different copies of the TUF metadata:

- Test devices receive :ref:`CI targets <ref-ci-targets>`.
- Production devices receive **production targets**,
  managed through so-called **waves** — a FoundriesFactory way to release updates to production devices.

Production Targets provide increased security compared to CI Targets.
They must be signed by the user-owned targets signing key, in addition to the Foundries.io™ owned signing key.

Normally, when the TUF targets metadata is updated, all devices see it and can start updating themselves.
Waves allow Factory operators to control an exact time when devices see a new version of the TUF targets metadata.

.. important::

    Production devices can only be updated to production Targets.
    The opposite is also true, production Targets can only be installed on production devices.
    From the TUF perspective CI versus production TUF Targets comprise two isolated sets of updates.

>     Within the scope of the below paragraphs, "device" refers  exclusively to a "production device".

Reviewer: Extra (amiss) space in `refers  exclusively`.

.. _ref-rm-wave:

Performing a Production OTA
---------------------------

First define a process to select CI builds which need to be delivered to production devices.
Every user performing production OTAs should generate their personal :ref:`offline TUF targets key <ref-offline-keys>` to sign production Targets.

> Let's assume you selected CI build version 42 as ready to be run in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us assume you selected CI build version 42 as ready to be run in production.
```

To start the production release process, create a new wave using the below command::

  # fioctl waves init <wave-name> <target number> <tag> -k <keys.tgz>
  fioctl waves init -k /absolute/path/to/targets.only.key.tgz v2.0-update 42 production

This creates a new TUF targets role version for production devices which listen to OTA updates for the ``production`` tag.
That TUF targets role only includes a single Target from CI build (in the above example, that Target version is 42).

.. note::

   We recommend generating :ref:`OSTree Static Deltas <ref-static-deltas>` before rolling out waves to devices.
   Static Deltas will optimize your OTA update download.

Once created, a new wave can be rolled out to Factory production devices.
This can be either all at once, or in phases.
There are several ways how a wave can be rolled out:

- To a subset of devices in a specific device group.
- To all devices in a specific device group.
- To a subset of devices in a Factory (potentially, across several device groups, including group-less devices).
- To all devices in a Factory.

> We recommend you first roll out a wave to a dedicated device group, which contains a small number of production devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you first roll out a wave to a dedicated device group, which contains a small number of production devices.
```

and you prefer to keep the next rollout phase randomized.
This way is even closer to the use of device groups, but does not necessitate their management::

    fioctl waves rollout v2.0-update --uuids @/path/to/canary-devices.lst
    fioctl waves rollout v2.0-update --limit 20
    fioctl waves complete

When using dynamic randomized device partitions for the rollout process,
Foundries.io APIs prioritize recently active devices over the offline devices.
It also filters out devices which already participated in a wave rollout.
That helps getting an early response about how the rollout is progressing,
and streamlines the gradual update of your device fleet to a newer version.

Releasing to Large Device Fleets
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now let us look at a more complex example of rolling out an update to a large device fleet.
Assume that your Factory has 100'000 production devices to be updated within a wave.
Normally, these devices will be split into a couple of groups according to your criteria.
Also assume your device fleet is arranged according to geographic presence,
e.g. device groups are ``us-east``, ``us-west``, ``eu-emea``, and ``apac``.

> Some, or all of these device groups, would still contain a large number of devices.

Reviewer: I'm certainly bad at English grammar.
This sentence just seems to be overly exposed to commas, which made me think too much of them.
